---
title: "Energy Policy and Planning" 
date: 2018-8-26
url: /c2/
aliases: 
    - /t5.html
    - /t4.html
    - /w1.html
    - /w85.html
    - /w109.html
tags: ["energy policy and planning","teaching assistant","Institute of Technology Bandung"]
author: ["Purnomo Yusgiantoro","Maghfira Ramadhani (TA)"]
description: "This is an elective course intended for graduate students covering economic theory and methods with quantitative and qualitative policy analysys tools to help understanding energy policy analysis and planning." 
summary: "This is an elective course intended for graduate students covering economic theory and methods with quantitative and qualitative policy analysys tools to help understanding energy policy analysis and planning. The course is delivered in Bahasa Indonesia language. I was a teaching assistant for this course from 2018 to 2022 working with Prof. Purnomo Yusgiantoro as the primary instructor." 
cover:
    image: ""
    alt: ""
    relative: false
editPost:
    URL: ""
    Text: ""
showToc: true
disableAnchoredHeadings: false

---

## Introduction

This course covers research topics related to economic slack. So what is economic slack? Economic slack describes the amount of productive resources in the economy that are unused. There are many different forms of slack: people who cannot find a job and remain unemployed; machines left idle in a factory; employed workers left idle on the job; hotel rooms, restaurants table, airplane seats that remain vacant; durable goods that cannot be sold and depreciate; perishable goods that cannot be sold and perish.

Economic slack represents a waste of productive resources, and it therefore is something that should be limited. Moreover, in addition to its wastefulness, unemployment generates other, large costs to society. People who are unemployed suffer from lower mental and physical health than employed workers. Even employed people in areas with high unemployment report lower well-being. Accordingly, good economic policy should stabilize economic slack at a desirable level and avoid periods of elevated slack.

The course is centered around formal modeling, but it also presents evidence supporting the assumptions introduced in the models. In the course we cover several models of economic slack and use them to answer several questions: 

- Why does slack exist? 
- How does slack affect economic life? 
- Why does slack vary over time? 
- How are slack fluctuations related to price and wage rigidities?
- What is the socially optimal amount of slack?
- How should monetary policy respond to cyclical fluctuations in slack?
- How should fiscal policy respond to fluctuations in cyclical slack?
- What happens at the zero lower bound? 

##### Readings

- [Yusgiantoro (2018)](https://www.purnomoyusgiantorocenter.org/a-book-summary-of-ekonomi-energi-teori-aplikasi/)
